Notes explaining Matlab and R Coding: 

Matlab: 

SimulationScript performs scaled up version of Simulation 2 in R. BootScript performs scaled up 
version of Bootstrap simulations. Remaining codes are functions needed for these Scripts to run 
and explained throughout the Scripts and with comments in the functions themselfes. Some 
technical details of implementation:

Starting values for Optimization for GARCH models were created the following way: Starting 
values around simple non-time varying parameterization of the models. Then for first simulation 
use a global solver with these starting values with T=10000. The estimates from this simulation 
are then the starting values for a local solver for all other simulations. In case of convergence 
problems, a global solver is used. Local solver is Nelder Mead algorithm. Constraints are 
imposed by a punishment term in the objective function. One such constraint for example is that 
nu > 2 to avoid an undefined variance. Also nu < 200 as for larger nu the distribution basically 
becomes normal which leads to numerical issues as there isn’t much of a difference between nu = 
200 and nu going to infinity so the optimizer sometimes lets nu become infinite leading 
to problems with further calculations and evaluation of the gamma function which shows up in 
the t-pdf. Further constraints are usually positivity constraints or model-specific constraints. 
Stationarity was not imposed due to constraints (but explosiveness leading to undefined or 
infinite Likelihood expressions were accounted for by a punishment as well). Starting variance 
for GARCH recursion is always the unconditional empirical variance. h-step forecast from 
Egarch is the median and not the mean in case the Egarch forecast differs sufficiently from the 
GJR forecast because in some forecast-simulations the Egarch process becomes explosive. This 
does not affect the median but heavily affects the mean. We usually want to use the mean 
though as this minimizes the expected IS distance and always using the median can cause outliers 
in the IS distance. Seeds are fixed for forecast-simulation.

Robustness towards starting values and convergence problems and explosiveness was only 
needed when scaling up the number of simulation hence this is largely left out of the R code for 
simplicity. The data application does not show any of these problems.